Automation Framework:
---------------------
We organize automation project files/folder in structured manner

Objectives:
-----------
1. Re-usubility
2. Maintainability
3. Readability

Types of frameworks
-------------------
1. Build-in:
           ex: TestNG, Junit, Cucumber, Robot etc...
           
2. Customized (User defined):
           ex: modular framework, data drive, keyword driven, hybrid driven etc..     
           
Phases/Stages:
-------------
1. Analyzing the app/build under test (AUT)
          - Number of pages
          - What are all elements /how to automate /type of elements they are
          - What to automate / What we cannot automate

2. Choose test cases for automation

100 test cases --> 90 automatable  10 cannot automate 
-> if able to automate 90 test cases then that is a 100% automation is possible

Interview que: Is 100% automation possible? 
-> If you are expecting the entire application should be automated if you are considering that as a 100% automation.
   No, that is never possible.
   But, if you are expecting to automate only the test cases that are automatable, 
   then yes — it is possible to achieve 100% automation 
   
Choosing the Test cases for automation based on below priority
Sanity test cases - P1
Data driven test case/re-tests - P2 - If any test cases need test data/ repeation
Regression test cases - P2 
Any other cases - P4

3. Design and Development of framework

Framework will be designed by 3+ years exp.
I haven't designed completed framework.
I have done some contribution to the framework like i created page object classes, added utility file, 
added some more test cases and executed.

4. Execution - local, remotely

5. Maintenance

---------------------------------------

In my previous project, I worked on a hybrid automation framework built using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, and Java. 
We used Page Object Model (POM) design pattern, and Maven for build management and dependency handling.

The framework is modular and designed for reusability and scalability. Here's how it's structured:


1. Base Class - Handles test-level setup like WebDriver initialization, loading configuration properties, 
launching the browser, and teardown. 
It’s the parent of all test classes.

2. Base Page -	Contains common page-level actions like clickElement(), enterText(), and wait logic. 
It promotes code reuse and is extended by individual page classes.

3. Page Classes – Each web page has a corresponding class using the POM structure. 
These classes contain element locators and reusable methods to interact with those elements on the page.

4. Test Classes – These are actual test scripts written in TestNG. 
They use methods from Page Classes to perform actions and assertions.

5. Utilities – We have utility classes for handling things like:

Reading from Excel (using Apache POI) for data-driven testing
Taking screenshots on failures
Logging (using Log4j or built-in Java logger)

6. Data-Driven – Test data is stored in Excel or JSON files, and we use TestNG’s @DataProvider 
or custom utilities are used to parameterize test cases.

7. Reports – We integrated ExtentReports to generate HTML reports with screenshots and test logs.

8. CI/CD – The framework is integrated with Jenkins for scheduled and pipeline-based executions. Git is used for version control and team collaboration.

In my project, we used Dockerized Selenium Grid to run tests in parallel across different browsers. 
We used Docker Compose to start the Selenium Grid, which includes the Hub and browser Node containers like Chrome and Firefox. 
Our tests used RemoteWebDriver to connect to the grid endpoint. 
This setup helped us improve test execution speed and made the framework CI-ready by integrating it with Jenkins.

What is Docker Compose?
Docker Compose is a tool that lets you define and run multiple Docker containers using a single YAML file (docker-compose.yml).
💡 Instead of running many docker run commands manually, Docker Compose allows you to define all services and run them with one command:
docker-compose up


1. Base Class
2. Base Page
3. Page Classes
4. Test Classes
5. Utility Classes (Excel, ExtentReport, Log4j, DataProviders)
6. Data-Driven Testing (DataProviders)
7. Reports
8. CI/CD Integration